Running a Tracerout for Koha:

. Go to the Windows start button and search for cmd
. Open cmd.com (the Command prompt software)
. Type "ping google.com -t"
. Count to 20 (about 20 seconds) and then type "CTRL-C"
. Type "tracert google.com"
. Right click on the Command prompt window and click on "Select all" then hit the enter key (this will copy all of the data from the Command prompt window into the Windows clipboard)
. Open an e-mail to nexthelp@nekls.org and paste the data from the Command prompt window into the e-mail
. Type "ping 166.78.47.76 -t"
. Count to 20 (about 20 seconds) and then type "CTRL-C"
. Type "tracert 166.78.47.76" in the Command Prompt window at the '>' sign
. Right click on the Command prompt window and click on "Select all" then hit the enter key (this will, again, copy all of the data from the Command prompt window into the Windows clipboard)
. Paste this additional data into the e-mail you opened earlier
. After the data has been pasted into the e-mail, add your name, your library, a description of the problem you were having with Koha, and the time that the problem occured as well as the time you ran these commands in the Command prompt

The data you're sending when you go through this process may help us determine if there is a problem with Koha or if the problem is with your internet commection.

One reason that internet speed can affect Koha more than it can affect regular internet traffic is that sites like Google and Amazon and CNN and Facebook have multiple servers all across the world.  We only have one server running Koha.  If you try to go to a website like Google and your internet service provider has trouble accessing the closest server, it can quickly reroute you to a different server across a different path and the problem is quickly solved.  If there is something blocking traffic between your internet service provider and our 1 Koha server, getting around that block can slow down that connection and there really isn't anything we can do about it.
